Obejct oeriented programming 

4 pillars
1> polymorphism 
2> Data Abstraction 
3> Encapsulation 
4> Inheritence

polymorphism :-
basically of two types
compile time  and run time 

compile time is static and is of two types function overloading and operater overloading 
run time is basically dynamic  and virtual functions and method overriding come under run time polymorphism 

Method overriding, on the other hand, occurs when a derived class has a definition for one of the member functions of the base class. 
That base function is said to be overridden.

## java doesn't support operator overloading##

Encapsulation :-

it is the conecpt of wrapping up data and methods into one single unit .
we use this to reduce the access to variables and data and to avoid accidetal changes to code or data 
it is a protective shield that prevents the data from being accessed by the code outside this shield. 
Advantages of encapsualtion include:-
data hiding 
reusability
increased flexibilty
testing code is easy 

Data Abstraction :-
Data Abstraction is the property by virtue of which only the essential details are displayed to the user. 
The trivial or the non-essential units are not displayed to the user. Ex: A car is viewed as a car rather than its individual components.
abstraction is achieved by interfaces and abstract classes. We can achieve 100% abstraction using interfaces.

An abstract class is a class that is declared with an abstract keyword.
An abstract method is a method that is declared without implementation.
An abstract class may or may not have all abstract methods. Some of them can be concrete methods
A method-defined abstract must always be redefined in the subclass, thus making overriding compulsory or making the subclass itself abstract.
Any class that contains one or more abstract methods must also be declared with an abstract keyword.
There can be no object of an abstract class. That is, an abstract class can not be directly instantiated with the new operator.
An abstract class can have parameterized constructors and the default constructor is always present in an abstract class.



Encapsulation vs Data Abstraction

Encapsulation is data hiding(information hiding) while Abstraction is detailed hiding(implementation hiding).
While encapsulation groups together data and methods that act upon the data, data abstraction deal with exposing the interface to the user and hiding the details of implementation.
Encapsulated classes are java classes that follow data hiding and abstraction while We can implement abstraction by using abstract classes and interfaces. 
Encapsulation is a procedure that takes place at the implementation level, while abstraction is a design-level process.


Inheritence:-

Inheritance is an important pillar of OOP(Object-Oriented Programming).
It is the mechanism in java by which one class is allowed to inherit the features(fields and methods) of another class.
The keyword used for inheritance is extends.

 Single Inheritance: In single inheritance, subclasses inherit the features of one superclass. In the image below, class A serves as a base class for the derived class B.


Multilevel Inheritance:-derived class will be inheriting a base class and as well as the derived class also act as the base class to other class.
In Java, a class cannot directly access the grandparent’s members.

Hierarchical Inheritance: In Hierarchical Inheritance, one class serves as a superclass (base class) for more than one subclass. 

Multiple Inheritance (Through Interfaces): In Multiple inheritances, one class can have more than one superclass and inherit features from all parent classes. Please note that Java
does not support multiple inheritances with classes. In java, we can achieve multiple inheritances only through Interfaces. 


contsructors:-

A constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize objects. 
The constructor is called when an object of a class is created. It can be used to set initial values for object attributes.'

constructors are of two types :-
no argument constructor
paramerterized constructor

constructors vs functions in java :-

Constructors must have the same name as the class within which it is defined while it is not necessary for the method in Java.
Constructors do not return any type while method(s) have the return type or void if does not return any value.
Constructors are called only once at the time of Object creation while method(s) can be called any number of times.

Destructor:-
It is a special method that automatically gets called when an object is no longer used. 
When an object completes its life-cycle the garbage collector deletes that object and deallocates or releases the memory occupied by the object
